.\" debsecan-create-cron - Debian Security Analyzer (cron entries)
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Florian Weimer
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH DEBSECAN 8 2005-12-19 "" ""
.SH NAME
debsecan-create-cron \- Create cron entry for the Debian Security Analyzer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B debsecan-create-cron
.I suite
.br
.B debsecan-create-cron --generic
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B debsecan-create-cron
creates a cron entry for
.BR debsecan ,
the Debian security analyzer.  The
.I suite
argument is mandatory; it specifies the Debian release the system is
running.  The cron entry runs hourly, but
.B debsecan
itself restricts actually processing to once a day.  The minute the
cron job runs is selected randomly, to reduce peak server load.
.P
.B debsecan-create-cron --generic
creates a generic cron entry which is does not include a suite
argument.  (This is only used to initialize
.B debsecan
without user interaction; you should specifiy the correct suite when
invoking
.B debsecan-create-cron
manually, so that
.BR debsecan 's
output will contain additional information.)
.P
If the cron entry is no longer marked as automatically generated,
.B debsecan-create-cron
will refuse to overwrite it.
.SH AUTHOR
.B debsecan
was written by Florian Weimer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR debsecan "(1),"
.BR cron "(8)"
